---
layout: post
category: Co-op Experiences
title: "Co-op: Patheon"
tags:
 - code
 - plc
 - scada
 - python
---

For my second and third co-op terms I spent time in Greenville, North Carolina working at Patheon.
Patheon, now a part of Thermo Fisher Scientific, runs a pharmaceutical manufacturing plant there and I chose to work at that plant to gain some experience working in controls engineering.
I wanted to use this experience as a stepping stone towards applying to co-op at Tesla.

<!--more-->

## Fall 2018

### Controls Engineering Intro

After I arrived in North Carolina I was assigned to work with the steriles automation team.
They maintained the PLCs (programmable logic controller) which ran the machines on the steriles production lines for the entire building.
These machines produced sterile medicine for injection, including the vial sterilization, filling, and capping processes.

### Datacenter VM Maintenance

All of the HMIs (human machine interface) that operators used on the production lines were ran from a centralized virtual machine datacenter that my team also maintained.
We used VMWare's Enterprise vSphere software to control the creation of and monitor all of the virtual machines.

### SCADA

SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) is a generic term used for software created for the purpose of running, interacting with, and monitoring PLCs and their associated machinery.
There are a few widely used applications and Patheon used a combination of Rockwell Automation's *FactoryTalk* suite and Inductive Automation's *Ignition*.

## Spring 2019

### Black Box Integration

### Advanced Ignition

### Data Analysis

See the post on [AmegaView](2018-04-10-amega-parser.md) for more info.